### NAME

NCM::Component::spma::yumng - NCM SPMA configuration component for Yum, new generation

### SYNOPSIS

This document describes how to control the behaviour of the package
manager itself. For information on how to manage packages with
Quattor, please check
[http://quattor.org/documentation/2013/04/05/package-management.html](http://quattor.org/documentation/2013/04/05/package-management.html).

### RESOURCES

- `/software/components/spma/active` : boolean

    Activates/deactivates the component.

- `/software/components/spma/unescape` : boolean

    If defined and set to false, then it is assumed that the package information in
    the profile has not been escaped with PAN's escape() function. This setting is
    only meaningful when using a tool different than PAN for generating CDB
    profiles.

    Currently ignored.

- `/software/components/spma/tmpdir` : string

    If defined, set the path to the temporary directory (for compatibility
    with -bad- packages that need to remove the sticky bit from `/tmp`).

#### Flags for Yum processing:

- `/software/components/spma/process_obsoletes` : boolean

    Make Yum replace obsoleted packages by their recommended counterparts.
    Defaults to `false` to keep backwards compatibility.

- `/software/components/spma/userpkgs` : string ("yes|no")

    Whether SPMA should keep any packages the user may have installed
    manually.

    Set to `no` to make the SPMA take full control of all your software
    installations. Set to `yes` to preserve any packages you installed
    by hand. If you do so, SPMA will never remove a package.

- `/software/components/spma/userpkgs_retry` : boolean

    Yum-based spma might get confused and fails when it tries
    to remove packages when `userpkgs` is `no` while installing
    new ones. Typically it will (try to) remove a
    leaf package, that is also to be installed as a dependency of a new
    to-be-installed package.

    With `userpkgs_retry` set to `true`, the package update process
    will be retried in case of failure in 2 steps, a first retry while
    preserving the installed packages, and if this retry was succesful,
    followed by a second retry where it will (try to) remove leaf packages
    again.

- `/software/components/spma/excludes` : string\[\]

    Packages listed in this list will be ignored by Yum. It will make them
    invisible from metadata. Globs can be used for items in this list.

- `/software/components/spma/yumconf` : string

    Yum configuration file (`/etc/yum.conf`) which SPMA will create on a box
    before any package operations.

- `/software/components/spma/whitelist` : string\[\]

    List of globs to specify packages which are ignored by SPMA. These packages
    will remain in place and will not be removed upon SPMA execution. Typical
    use case is 3rd party custom installations where an installer is executed
    and it generates/installs packages on its own. Without this feature SPMA
    would remove such packages.

- `/software/components/spma/quattor_os_file` : string

    File name which will contain custom build information generated by SPMA
    upon successful completion.

- `/software/components/spma/quattor_os_file` : string

    String to be put in quattor\_os\_file upon successful SPMA completion.

- `/software/components/spma/userprio` : string ("yes|no")

    Obsoleted and ignored.

- `/software/components/spma/protectkernel` : string ("yes|no")

    Obsolete and ignored. This is delegated to Yum.

- `/software/components/spma/packager` : string

    Must contain `yum` to use this module.

- `/software/components/spma/usespmlist` : string ("yes|no")

    Obsolete. Currently ignored.

- `/software/components/spma/rpmexclusive` : string ("yes|no")

    Obsolete. Currently ignored.

- `/software/components/spma/debug` : string ("0|1|2|3|4|5")

    Obsolete. Currently ignored.

- `/software/components/spma/verbose` : string ("0|1")

    Obsolete. Currently ignored.

- `/software/components/spma/cachedir` : string

    Obsolete. Currently ignored.

- `/software/components/spma/localcache` : string ("yes|no")

    Obsolete. Currently ignored.

- `/software/components/spma/proxy` : string ("yes|no")

    Whether to use a proxy.

- `/software/components/spma/proxytype` : string ("forward|reverse")

    Type of proxy (reverse or forward).

- `/software/components/spma/proxyhost` : string

    Comma-separated list of proxy hosts. If you have a forward proxy you
    should specify only one. You may specify several reverse proxies
    here, and they will be appended to the `baseurl` entry of each
    repository's configuration.

- `/software/components/spma/proxyport` : string

    Port where the proxies are listening.

- `/software/components/spma/run` : string ("yes|no")

    Whether to actually run Yum operations that may install, remove or
    update packages.

- `/software/components/spma/fullsearch` : boolean

    Yum-based spma will try to verify that all version locked packages
    can actually be found in the provided repositories. For packages
    that have versions with wildcards specified, a full (and possibly slow)
    search of each pattern can be performed by setting `fullsearch` to true.
    By default, the fullsearch is not performed, and for any packages that have
    versions with wildcards, it is assumed that the repositories contain them.

- `/software/components/spma/headnode` : boolean

    Ignored.

### FILES

- `/etc/spma.conf`
- `/var/lib/spma-target.cf`

### SEE ALSO

You must read this document to understand how to manage packages
with Quattor:

[http://quattor.org/documentation/2013/04/05/package-management.html](http://quattor.org/documentation/2013/04/05/package-management.html),

These links detail experiences and strategies relevant for managing
software installations in large sites:

- [http://quattor.org/documentation/2013/02/07/yum-package-management.html](http://quattor.org/documentation/2013/02/07/yum-package-management.html)
- [http://quattor.org/documentation/2013/01/29/spma-yum-upgrade.html](http://quattor.org/documentation/2013/01/29/spma-yum-upgrade.html)
- [http://quattor.org/blog/2013/01/29/package-layout-proposal.html](http://quattor.org/blog/2013/01/29/package-layout-proposal.html)
- [http://quattor.org/blog/2013/03/27/cleaning-up-packages.html](http://quattor.org/blog/2013/03/27/cleaning-up-packages.html)
